---
title: Delegate mak resigning
date: 2019-11-30 10:56:08
tags:
---

Hi everyone,
This is going to be a long post but I hope you read it as it will give a little background about myself and my intentions. I came across an idea roughly 5 years ago that would help solve some fundamental challenges in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and I became obsessed with it. One challenge I faced with it was that in order to make it work correctly I needed needed to decentralize it so that all the power didn't exist in the hands of a small bunch of people. I found out ~2.5 years ago that the way to do that was via blockchains but the famous ones had scaling issues. Looking for potential candidate platforms that could scale I came across Ark ~2 years ago and have stuck around ever since. To help Ark get to a point where it could serve my goals I started making contributions when I noticed issues around token value and scalability that could be solved using technology. You can see my contributions on the github page for AIPs. However, today I feel that Ark and blockchain technology in general has reached a point of maturity where it's getting more and more difficult to find unsolved issues and solve them which makes it hard to justify spending my time to make more contributions given the enormous time investment required and the meager value of the forging rewards for doing so (spending time outside of the top51 due to the delegate run by fix makes this equation even worse). Additionally I think the cryptocurrency technologies have been getting advanced enough, especially with the upcoming avalanche protocol implementations, that I can finally build the AI idea on top without worrying about scaling issues. As such I think it's time to focus my energy on getting back to the AI project that has always been my goal and was the reason why I got involved in crypto in the first place. As my time and energy is extremely limited especially alongside a fulltime job, I am left with no choice but to resign from being a delegate. I will be posting one final AIP about reusable payment addresses despite the fact that I wasn't able to solve all the kinks in it. I'm hoping that someone else will have a look at it and figure out how to solve the remaining issue. I will leave some of my nodes running for as long as I can and will continue to payout 50% as long as I'm still forging. I will try to continue to be actively involved in the Ark community. I enjoyed being part of the community, and working on these tough challenges that were thought by many to be impossible to solve. Thanks for the great times.

- MAK

tl;dr: Delegate MAK resigning, will continue to run node and payout forging rewards according to current proposal for as long as necessary
P.S: I'm still working on the arkplace project that was funded by ACF so expect more news on that in the future